Whether you're having Chipotle or just mixing a salad from a grocery store kit, there's a good chance those ingredients come from Taylor Farms, one of the world's largest producers of fresh cut vegetables and salads. The company did around 7.3 billion dollars in sales last year. After years of consolidation, Taylor Farms now owns and operates nearly every point of the supply chain. The consolidation has camouflaged sources, but the benefit is good prices. It's all put in one big pot, and if that pot has now gone bad, that affects the entire downstream logistics food chain of all the restaurants. And it has. This summer Taylor Farms has been at the center of cyclosporiasis and salmonella outbreaks linked to its facilities in Mexico. While patient tracking data have linked the company to the outbreak, a direct link is yet to be established. The company has issued several multi-state recalls, and the FDA updated food safety guidelines for producers of fresh cut products. Is it just a coincidence that salmonella is happening at the same time as cyclospora? Americans should have full confidence in the food supply in this country. FDA investigates dozens of foodborne illness outbreaks each year. Taylor Farms is interesting because it continually denies that it had anything to do with this. Nobody's tested and found anything on our farm, but that happened because lettuce gets eaten and doesn't get saved. It's hard to pinpoint Taylor Farms' full market share. It operates in three different segments: selling salad kits in major grocery stores, servicing some of the biggest fast food chains like Taco Bell, and offering ready-to-eat products sold in delis across the country. Taylor Farms' competitive advantage is its infrastructure. It partners with hundreds of family farms for most of the produce; Taylor does the rest. That means everything from refrigerating, washing, chopping, packaging, labeling, shipping, and distributing. That's why the company has become so vital to its customers. 40% of all salad kits at grocery stores are from Taylor. Taylor Farms was founded in 1995, and by 2010, even before its acquisition spree, it claimed to be the nation's largest salad producer. Over the course of the next 15 years, it either bought up or invested in at least a dozen companies domestically and internationally. Some of them were salad competitors like Earthbound Farm in 2019. Others were processing facilities like Club Chef, or tech assets like agricultural robotics company FarmWise in 2025. If they can promise institutions that have multiple locations all over the country that they can supply what they need on a regular basis, then for a restaurant chain, it's easier for them to deal with a major multinational company than it is to deal with local farmers.