How big can an airport be? This is London Heathrow in comparison to Manhattan, normal enough. This is Dubai's current international airport, a little bigger, but it still seems okay. But here is the new airport Dubai is building, Al Maktoum International, a place bigger than Manhattan. This is less an airport and more a city with some planes. It'll have the capacity for more than 260 million passengers a year. There'll be five parallel runways, 400 aircraft gates, and it'll ferry some 12 million tons of cargo. Oh, and the price tag, 35 billion US dollars. It's the most ambitious piece of transport infrastructure on the planet. Not only is it set to radically transform the aviation industry, but it could change this entire region forever. Or at least that's the plan. Now this airport is big, but we kind of need to really bring home for you just how big it really is. And before any of you run off to the comment section, yes, King Fahd and Denver airport are technically bigger than Al Maktoum will be, but they're both far smaller in terms of the space actually used. Geographically, sure, it's larger than the island of Manhattan. But what does that actually translate to? London's Heathrow, one of the world's busiest international hubs, handles around 84 million passengers a year. Hartsfield-Jackson in Atlanta, often ranked as the world's busiest airport overall, processes more than 100 million passengers a year. Ethiopia's Bishoftu airport, currently under construction, is looking to break current records by having a passenger capacity of 110 million. But Al Maktoum is being designed for 260 million. That means that Dubai's new airport could accommodate more than double the passenger volume of today's busiest airports. If we were comparing that to say the size of the entire US population, it would be three out of every four Americans traveling through a single airport every year. That's a hell of a lot of people. On top of those hundreds of millions of passengers, you've also got to factor in the cargo capacity and that is absolutely enormous. Some 12 million tons by 2032. Hong Kong International Airport currently handles the most cargo in the world. But that's less than half Dubai's projected capacity and sits at around 5 million tons annually. Actually, let's just quickly list all the world records that this new airport is set to break. It's going to be the largest airport by passenger capacity, by cargo and by runway capacity. It'll have the largest terminal development and the largest footprint of any airport on the planet. Someone better call Guinness, because they're going to need a whole section on this project in the next book.